I was awarded an income of £50,000
a year. Albert will be expecting
nothing less.
£20,000 a year!
ELIZA: I think of you in the palace.
That should have been my life.
The girls here are too delicious.
Please understand that all I've
asked for is so that I can have
my own position, my own freedom.
When I marry you tomorrow, it will be
as an ordinary woman.
You will be my husband.
And you will be my wife.
# Gloriana
# Hallelujah
# Gloriana, hallelujah
# Hallelujah! #
(Birdsong)
My Victoria.
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Majesty, I have a list
for the dinner this...
Excuse me, Majesty.
I thought you were alone.
Your Highness.
She can just...walk in?
Her bedroom is next door.
I like to have her near me,
in case I need anything in the night.
But now you have me.
FRANCATELLI: Not much of a honeymoon.
Two days at the Castle
and parties every night.
I hope the Prince had time
to do his duty.
The royal stallion needs time
to cover his mare.
Oh, poor soul.
What's the matter, Mrs Jenkins?
Mr Hedge, the whalebone man,
says he can't leave his house
because they have the fever
in Seven Dials.
I blame the foreigners.
One day this city is going to burst.
Must we have a state dinner tonight?
We've only just come back
from our honeymoon.
I want to show that you have right of
precedence over the rest of
my family.
I mean, it's quite absurd you should
be forced to walk into dinner after
my uncles.
Your place is by my side. I know.
But I do not know if your uncles
would agree.
We must start as we mean to go on.
Together.
(Man calling out)
What's that noise?
That is the muffin man.
The muffin man?
The muffin man!
He carries them all on a tray
balancing on his head.
Three for a penny.
You know, when the children come,
I think it would be nice to live
far away from the city.
What children?
Our children.
It would make me so happy to have
a real family.
Aren't you happy now, Albert?
Of course. But...
I so want to be a father.
And you'll make a wonderful mother.
This...I know.
We will do better than our parents,
I think.
Childbirth is a dangerous business.
Look what happened to
Princess Charlotte.
Well, the Queen is back from her
honeymoon.
Already? I've been summoned to the
Palace for dinner.
Funny, I...
I thought she blamed me over the
business of the Prince's allowance.
The Queen blames the Tories for
everything, from ingrowing toenails
to cholera.
But Melbourne can't govern the
country from Brocket Hall for ever.
Her Majesty will have
to get used to us.
The boxes are here, Majesty.
I won't be long, my angel.
Perhaps I could be
of some assistance?
Oh, you would be bored to tears.
Wouldn't he, Lehzen?
Why don't you play something
on the piano?
I can hear you from my desk.
(DRAMATIC PIANO INTRO)
Morning, Your Royal Highness.
Anson.
Perhaps, sir, you would like to
acknowledge some of the wedding
presents.
I have a list.
An embossed silver tureen
from the Lord Mayor of Ly-cester.
We usually say Leicester, sir.
(Low chatter)
Have you finished, sir?
If only my neck were really
so swanlike.
But I think my drawing is quite
lifelike. Don't you agree,
Lord Alfred?
Mm.
I think, sir,
you have drawn what you see.
Your Royal Highness, the Queen is
asking for you, sir.
Thank you.
I was missing you so I wondered if
you could help me.
I am at your service.
I have all these papers to sign.
Oh, no, you don't have to read them.
I've done that already.
Here.
It will be so much faster if I sign
and you blot.
How delightful.
(Horse neighs and blows)
Allow me.
Remember, the plan tonight is that
you will take me into dinner.
Let's hope so.
(Lively chatter from behind doors)
Her Majesty the Queen...
and His Royal Highness
Prince Albert.
His Royal Highness
the Duke of Sussex and
His Grace the Duke of Wellington.
Uncle Sussex.
Your honeymoon was not a long
campaign, Ma'am.
Why, Duke, I don't regard marriage
as a battlefield.
Perhaps that comes later, Ma'am.
I don't know if you are aware, sir,
but I believe we are related
on your side of the family,
through your mother.
Indeed?
I don't know how you Germans keep
track of all your principalities.
At least here we only have
one royal family.
Dear Mr Bumps! How I have missed him,
Lord Alfred.
Mr Bumps, please curtsey
to your Queen.
(Gasping and giggling)
Oh, how adorable! He's been
practising all day.
The dog is wearing jewellery.
Is this an English custom?
Mr Bumps was so jealous of
my miniature of Her Majesty
that he wouldn't let me alone
till I got him one too.
(Mr Bumps whines)
Ma'am.
The dogs wear jewellery,
the pianos are out of tune
and all the people talk about is
the weather.
Oh, well, I think there are
some consolations.
Albert?
As the only prince
of the blood present,
I believe it is my privilege
to take you into dinner, Ma'am.
Albert is my husband and should be
by my side. It is time things were
changed.
Before you came to the throne,
there were many people in this
country who thought that a system
that allowed a young, inexperienced
girl to take the throne
over a man like my brother
Cumberland should be changed.
I was not among them, Ma'am.
But then I do not believe that rules
should be altered when they become
inconvenient.
You've done your hair differently,
Duchess.
It brings out the curve
in your neck.
Don't worry, Albert. They will not
treat you like this when you have
a son.
Then they will all respect you.
I won't give up.
You belong at my side.
There is no place for me here...
..here among your curtseying dogs.
(Whispers) Yes!
Yes, there is.
This is your home, Albert.
(Dramatic piano music)
I can do nothing right.
Nonsense. You have a happy marriage.
Who in our family can say that?
You have always been too sensitive.
Ignore them and concentrate on
producing an heir.
Once you have done that...
everything will be different.
That is what everyone says but...
..it's not as easy as it seems.
I have to find a place for myself.
Ah!
Next to your wife
when you go into dinner?
No.
A place I have earned.
I can't bear to see the Prince
so humiliated.
I'm surprised Uncle Sussex does not
see that.
The Duke of Sussex is most singular.
I have never seen him without the
skull cap and I believe he lives off
ices and turtle soup.
I suppose he has a mistress,
like all my other uncles.
Oh, no, Ma'am. No, he is happily
married to Lady Cecilia Buggin.
But because she is not of royal
blood, she is not recognised
as his wife
under the Royal Marriages Act.
If only Lord M were here.
What would he do?
Poor Mr Hedge.
What kind of fever is it?
Indian cholera, most like.
Slums like Seven Dials, you can't
see it, but it's there, hanging in
the air.
Don't worry, we're quite safe here.
Your Royal Highness, the Queen has
requested that you join her in the
Throne Room
for an audience with Mr Allen and
Mr Buxton of the British And Foreign
Anti-Slavery Society.
As you know, Your Majesty,
the wicked practice of slavery
has been abolished throughout
your dominions, yet it continues
in other...
..less enlightened nations,
most notably America.
We have organised a convention,
Ma'am,
to include like-minded people
from around the world
to protest against the continuation
of this barbarity.
There will be a delegation of
American abolitionists
that will include some Negro slaves
that have escaped their bonds.
A worthy endeavour, gentlemen.
How can I assist you?
We wondered, Ma'am, whether you
would open the proceedings.
To have your public support would be
of inestimable value.
We have many distinguished
supporters.
Sir Robert Peel has been tireless
in his efforts,
but...there is no greater ally
than yourself.
I find it shocking that this
practice should continue
across the Atlantic
in the country known as "the land of
the free".  Indeed, sir.
I have been a supporter of your cause
ever since I was a little girl...
and I shall certainly make
a subscription.
However...
as your sovereign,
I cannot open your meeting...
..however much I might want to.
(Bell tolling in distance)
(Coughing)
(Coughs)
(Man retches)
You can't come down here, miss.
By order of the Parish Council,
on account of the fever.
My cousin and her baby live down
there. They need my help.
If I let you in, miss,
I can't let you out.
So, you should decide how urgent
your business is.
My angel.
Lehzen.
Yes, Majesty.
I need to ask you something.
Of course.
(Clears throat)
Now that I'm married
there will be changes.
Yes, Majesty.  But I don't want
any changes just yet.
No, Majesty.
I was wondering...
if I wanted things to stay...just as
they are for perhaps a year or so...
..how I might do that.
I keep thinking about
poor Princess Charlotte.
Oh.
Of course, Majesty. I am
inexperienced in these matters.
Of course.
But my sister's married
and she writes to me very frankly.
(Whispers)
Ten times?
We would be most honoured by your
presence, Your Royal Highness.
Victoria, I have decided to attend
the Anti-Slavery convention.
And I hope to say a few words
of my own.
And it will be a great honour, sir.
You are going to make a speech?
It is a subject about which I feel
very strongly, meine Liebe,
and...the usual protocols
which prevent you from attending
do not apply to me.
I need a position, Victoria.
Are you following me?
You're not meant to be here.
I know you went to Seven Dials and I
know you found it closed to visitors.
How?
A chef has a nose for the most
interesting ingredients.
The thing is, Miss Skerrett,
I have friends in Seven Dials.
Friends who do not let the Peelers
stand in their way.
Is there something I can do for you?
I don't know. What's in it for you?
I can think of something.
I have written what I wish to say
in German but I must deliver it
in English, of course.
Also, I believe it may be
rather too long.
I think if you were proposing
to publish an essay, sir...
Would you erm...like me to abridge
it for you, sir, and...put it into
English?
I would be most grateful.
Your German is far superior
to my English.
It's a very brave undertaking,
if I may say so, sir.
You think I'm foolhardy? I see.
But ever since I arrived
in this country,
I have been judged by people who
know nothing of my true character.
They laugh at my clothes,
they sneer at my accent.
I have seen cartoons when I am drawn
as a sausage.
So I have decided if I am to be held
up to scrutiny, it should be for
something I believe in.
What is it that Shakespeare says?
"Cowards die many times before
their deaths."
"The valiant never taste of death
but once." Julius Caesar.
Act Two, Scene Two.
Ha.
This bar-bar-ous trade is repugnant
to Christianity
and the blackest stain
upon civilised...
You don't have to make a speech.
I have to earn my position.
And as to your position...
I may have a solution to that.
But you'll have to wait and see.
I can make you tell me, you know.
I'd like to see you try!
Tell me.
No.
One, two, three, four, five,
six, seven, eight, nine, ten.
His Royal Highness,
the Duke of Sussex.
Uncle.
I asked you here today because there
is something I wish to discuss.
It's no use, Victoria. I am not
going to change my mind.
Lord knows...my life has not been
a happy one...
..but I am the son of a King and
I will not give up my birthright.
I want to talk to you
about your wife, Uncle.
You want to talk about Cecilia?
If you are going to tell me
that my marriage is illegal
because I did not have the
sovereign's consent, then I believe
you are nine years too late.
I was thinking... I should like
to meet your wife.
You would?
Yes.
Yes, because I feel it is important
that spouses are given the respect
they are due.
That is most gracious, Ma'am.
But I'm afraid it will not change my
mind in the question of precedence.
Of course, if she were to be received
at court, she would need a title.
As your marriage is morganatic,
she cannot be Duchess of Sussex,
but I think she could perhaps be
a Duchess of say...Inverness?
Duchess of Inverness.
Yes. It is one of the Sovereign's
discretionary titles.
So, Uncle, do you think your wife
could be agreeable?
To be received at Court
as a Duchess?
Yes, I believe she would.
Of course, the circumstances
would have to be right.
My wife's happiness is everything
to me.
I feel the same about Albert.
Never mind, Duchess.
Not all your arrows
miss their target.
You and the Prince are so different.
Perhaps I could help you
with your aim, Duchess.
Straighter.
And your hips.
Hold it.
Oh, doesn't Harriet look charming?
So kind of her to stay in town with
me, whilst her husband has gone back
to Ragsby.
Indeed.
When our mother left...
..Albi tried so hard not to cry.
I always wanted to be there
to protect him.
He was lucky to have you.
No, I was the lucky one.
He is my better half, I think.
And is your other half so very bad?
What do you think, Duchess?
I think, sir, that...you are a sheep
in wolf's clothing.
You pretend to be what my mother
would call a rake,
but underneath...I think you have
a heart that is tender.
I think...that you flatter me,
Duchess.
No, sir. I just describe what I see.
As President of the British And
Foreign Anti-Slavery Society,
I am glad so many people are here.
This bar-bar-ous trade is repugnant
to the spirit of Christianity.
Barbarous, sir, is the correct
pronunciation.  Thank you.
This...barbarous trade is repugnant
to the spirit of Christianity
and the blackest stain upon
civilised Europe.  Very good, sir.
And erm...remember you must...
speak up.
Exeter Hall is a large venue,
and I believe they're expecting more
than 3,000 people.
So many?
It is a cause that has great support
here across all parties and
interests.
It's not often that you find
such accord.
I believe that not only will Lord
Palmerston, the Foreign Secretary,
be attending,
but also Sir Robert Peel,
who as you know, sir, is a Tory.
Though I believe he was instrumental
in reducing my allowance by 20,000.
Victoria does not like him.
Sir Robert Peel will be
Prime Minister one day.
And you believe she should overcome
her dislike.
I see.
(Drunken muttering)
Think you can run faster
than the constable? Yeah!
Hey, stop, you little thief!
Come back here, you little rascal!
(Coughing)
(Baby wails)
(Knocks on door)
Nein. Nein. Bringt eine andere.
Exactly the man I would like to see.
Which necktie do you prefer?
I would like to look
my best tonight.
(Speaks German)
I saw you today
with the Duchess of Sutherland.
Yes, she is a keen toxophilite.
She's a married woman, Ernest.
I know.
Even Papa does not seduce
other men's wives.
No. But I don't think Papa has ever
fallen in love either.
I think it would be best
if you went back to Coburg.
Well, I would like to stay...
..for your speech,
to give you my support.
At the moment,
I don't know if I can...
Well, you should go home.
I must face this alone.
Ja.
But you are not alone, are you?
(Coughing nearby)
Mrs Ashdown?
My name is Charles Francatelli.
I'm a...friend of Miss Skerrett's.
She asked me to give you this.
(Child coughs)
Thank you.
May I come in?
You shouldn't. It's not safe.
I brought protection.
80 per cent proof.
You're braver than the doctor.
He won't come down here.
For the baby?
She won't stop coughing.
I've been so worried.
Chin up, hey?
(Child coughs)
Maybe I can help.
Why would you help me?
We don't know each other.
I know Miss Skerrett.
I know how much
she worries about you.
You must like her very much.
His Grace, the Duke of Wellington.
Her Majesty, the Queen, and
His Royal Highness, Prince Albert.
I shall miss you, my dear nephew.
But you will be back soon.
A christening, perhaps.
Perhaps.
Good evening, Your Royal Highness.
Lady Cecilia.
Actually, Wellington, my wife is now
Duchess of Inverness.
A discretionary title?
The Queen has deployed her arsenal.
My congratulations, Duchess.
Duke.
His Royal Highness, the Duke of
Sussex, Her Grace, the Duchess of
Inverness.
Uncle Sussex.
May I present my wife?
Your Majesty.
I am glad to meet you
at last...Duchess.
Delighted to be here, Ma'am.
Shall we?
Our little Queen has become rather
good at getting what she wants.
Don't you think, Duke?
Women!
Did you see Wellington's face when
The Duke of Sussex gave way to you?
Don't you think I've managed it
all rather neatly?
I think the way you handled it was
faultless.
You're extraordinary.
Albert, what's the matter? I thought
you would be pleased. We've won.
I think this is your victory...
not mine.
(Clock ticking)
How splendid to be
a king with 15 children.
Who went mad.
(Chuckles)
I think that my brother will have
a very happy marriage.
Yes. He loves the Queen enough.
But I do not think
that I will be so lucky.
Truly happy marriages are rare.
In my experience.
I wanted to tell you that I will be
going back to Coburg shortly.
Albert thinks that
I will be safer there.
Safer? I hardly think
you're in much danger
from a harmless flirtation
with a married woman.
You think that this is harmless?
Don't you?
No.
Then I must wish you bon voyage.
Promise me you will take care.
I will be fine, brother.
Just hurry up and produce a son
so I may be a godfather, yeah.
Make sure you look after my brother.
(Whispers in German)
You will miss him very much?
I hope you have enjoyed your stay,
sir.
I will never forget it.
For 20 years, we've been together
every day.
But now I have you...
..and soon we will have
our own family.
Welcome to England, Mr Barrett.
(Low chatter)
I just got a letter
from Mrs Ashdown.
She's very happy
in her new lodgings.
She asked me to tell you how
grateful she is.  How's the baby?
Still has a cough but Mrs Ashdown
thinks now they are out of the city,
it will get better.
I'm glad.
I used to fancy myself
a good judge of men,
but I can't think of many people who
would do what you did for a stranger
so...
I didn't do it for her.
I suppose you want something
in return.
Yes.
Yes, Miss Skerrett, I do.
I find myself thinking about you
sometimes
when I'm at my sugar work and I find
it hard to concentrate because...
..I...don't know your name.
Your real name, that is,
the name you were born with.
So er...
..that is what I would like.
My name?
Nancy.
Thank you...
..Nancy.
Just...speak up and smile
occasionally.
If I see you looking too stern
I shall make an objection.
I shall be looking out for you.
Good luck.
Thank you.
The first time you speak, you should
call him 'Your Royal Highness'.
After that, you can call him 'sir'.
Should I tell him he can call me
Jonas if he wants?
It is usual not to speak to royalty
until you are spoken to.
That's a system I am familiar with.
Now I'm here, I'm a little nervous.
Perfectly natural, sir.
If I see Victoria,
I will not stumble.
(Door squeaks open)
Miss Mott and Miss Cabot,
from Boston,
and this is Mr Barrett,
who was a slave in Virginia
until he made a most valiant escape.
Was your escape very difficult,
Mr Barrett?
Once I got away from the bloodhounds
it became a little easier.
But I didn't mind the hardships
because I knew I was on the way
to freedom, thank the Lord.
It is good that you are here today.
And it is good that you're here
today...
..sir.
I'm glad to be of some use.
Please.
I hope I am not late.
No, Ma'am.
The proceedings have not yet begun.
Mr Buxton has asked me to apologise
in advance for not having organised
a Royal box.
But I assured him
that you would not mind.
I have come incognito.
Forgive me, Ma'am, but your disguise
is not impenetrable.
You will be the cynosure
of all eyes.
Do you know, Lehzen... I find I am
feeling a little faint.
Faint, Majesty?
Yes.
Faint.
I think I shall return to the palace.
I think that is a wise decision,
Ma'am.
Anson...
..don't tell the Prince
until afterwards.
I don't want him to be distracted.
Understood, Ma'am.
His Royal Highness Prince Albert.
(Clears throat)
As President of the British And
Foreign Anti-Slavery Society...
..I am glad to see
so many people here.
This...
This barbarous trade is repugnant
to Christianity
and the blackest stain
upon civilised Europe.
Mankind, born and brought up
in a civilised society...
are physically and morally
speaking...
..to preside over the meeting of
this Society
from a conviction of its paramount
importance to the great interests of
humanity...
..persevering exertions of England
to abolish that atrocious traffic
in human beings
have not, as yet, led to...
..this great country will not relax
in its efforts
until it has finally, and forever,
put an end to a state of things...
..therefore trust that Providence
will prosper our exertions
in so holy a cause,
and that we may, at no distant
period,
be rewarded by the accomplishment of
the great and humane object
for the promotion of which
we have this day met.
Thank you.
I must congratulate you, sir.
That was a fine speech.
Thank you, Sir Robert.
This time, it seems,
we are on the same side.
How did your speech go?
I think it was well received.
I wish you had been there
to hear me.
This was your victory, my angel...
..not mine.
You're not tired any more?
No.
Not at all.
..five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten.
One, two, three, four, five, six,
seven, eight, nine, ten.
seven, eight...
What are you doing?
N-Nothing.
Did someone tell you to do this?
Lehzen said if I...
didn't want to have children
right away...
Of course I want children.
Your children, Albert.
Just...
..not yet.
You know, Lehzen is misinformed.
The only way to avoid conception is
erm...
..abstinence.
Is that what you want, Victoria?
Abstinence?
It is incumbent upon Your Majesty
to nominate a Regent.
Your Queen is sick.
WELLINGTON: If the Queen dies,
are we to be ruled by a German?
HARRIET: Chillington Hall is well
situated for your research.
May I ask where you stand
on the matter of the regency?
(Giggles)
I do not hunt. I shoot.
If I wish to bring railways or
anything
to the attention of the English
people, then I shall do it myself!
This is the future!
(TRAIN WHISTLE)
subtitles by Deluxe
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org